docs/APPLE-CONTAINER-NETWORKING.md, before:

# Apple Container Networking Setup (macOS 26)

Apple Container's vmnet networking requires manual configuration for containers to access the internet. Without this, containers can communicate with the host but cannot reach external services (DNS, HTTPS, APIs).

## Quick Setup

Run these two commands (requires `sudo`):

```bash
# 1. Enable IP forwarding so the host routes container traffic
sudo sysctl -w net.inet.ip.forwarding=1

# 2. Enable NAT so container traffic gets masqueraded through your internet interface
echo "nat on en0 from 192.168.64.0/24 to any -> (en0)" | sudo pfctl -ef -
```

> **Note:** Replace `en0` with your active internet interface. Check with: `route get 8.8.8.8 | grep interface`

## Making It Persistent

These settings reset on reboot. To make them permanent:

**IP Forwarding** — add to `/etc/sysctl.conf`:
```
net.inet.ip.forwarding=1
```

**NAT Rules** — add to `/etc/pf.conf` (before any existing rules):
```
nat on en0 from 192.168.64.0/24 to any -> (en0)
```

Then reload: `sudo pfctl -f /etc/pf.conf`

## IPv6 DNS Issue

By default, DNS resolvers return IPv6 (AAAA) records before IPv4 (A) records. Since our NAT only handles IPv4, Node.js applications inside containers will try IPv6 first and fail.

The container image and runner are configured to prefer IPv4 via:
```
NODE_OPTIONS=--dns-result-order=ipv4first
```

This is set both in the `Dockerfile` and passed via `-e` flag in `container-runner.ts`.

## Verification

```bash
# Check IP forwarding is enabled
sysctl net.inet.ip.forwarding
# Expected: net.inet.ip.forwarding: 1

# Test container internet access
container run --rm --entrypoint curl nanoclaw-agent:latest \
  -s4 --connect-timeout 5 -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" https://api.anthropic.com
# Expected: 404

# Check bridge interface (only exists when a container is running)
ifconfig bridge100
```

## Troubleshooting

| Symptom | Cause | Fix |
|---------|-------|-----|
| `curl: (28) Connection timed out` | IP forwarding disabled | `sudo sysctl -w net.inet.ip.forwarding=1` |
| HTTP works, HTTPS times out | IPv6 DNS resolution | Add `NODE_OPTIONS=--dns-result-order=ipv4first` |
| `Could not resolve host` | DNS not forwarded | Check bridge100 exists, verify pfctl NAT rules |
| Container hangs after output | Missing `process.exit(0)` in agent-runner | Rebuild container image |

## How It Works

```
Container VM (192.168.64.x)
    │
    ├── eth0 → gateway 192.168.64.1
    │
bridge100 (192.168.64.1) ← host bridge, created by vmnet when container runs
    │
    ├── IP forwarding (sysctl) routes packets from bridge100 → en0
    │
    ├── NAT (pfctl) masquerades 192.168.64.0/24 → en0's IP
    │
en0 (your WiFi/Ethernet) → Internet
```

## References

- [apple/container#469](https://github.com/apple/container/issues/469) — No network from container on macOS 26
- [apple/container#656](https://github.com/apple/container/issues/656) — Cannot access internet URLs during building

Commit message:

docs: full rewrite for Stingyclaw; fix torchaudio CPU compat in voice image
- Replace all NanoClaw/Claude SDK/Skills references across all 8 docs
- nanoclaw-architecture-final.md: new Stingyclaw architecture (host, agent, voice, IPC, sessions)
- nanorepo-architecture.md: codebase structure and extension guide
- SPEC.md: full spec updated (model-agnostic stack, MISSION.md, workflows, voice, error handling)
- SDK_DEEP_DIVE.md: deep dive of actual agent loop (backend detection, sanitization, tools, embeddings)
- REQUIREMENTS.md: updated philosophy and vision for Stingyclaw
- SECURITY.md: updated credential model (GEMINI_API_KEY, stdin-only passing)
- DEBUG_CHECKLIST.md: Linux/Docker commands replacing macOS/launchctl/apple-container
- APPLE-CONTAINER-NETWORKING.md: added Docker-first note, updated test URLs
- Dockerfile: install torchaudio from same CPU PyTorch index as torch to prevent libtorchaudio.so load failure

Made-with: Cursor

docs/APPLE-CONTAINER-NETWORKING.md, after:

# Apple Container Networking Setup (macOS)

> **Note:** Stingyclaw uses Docker by default and works out of the box on Linux and macOS with Docker Desktop. This document is only relevant if you're running on macOS with Apple's native container runtime (`container` CLI) instead of Docker.

Apple Container's vmnet networking requires manual configuration for containers to access the internet. Without this, containers can communicate with the host but cannot reach external services (DNS, HTTPS, APIs).

## Quick Setup

Run these two commands (requires `sudo`):

```bash
# 1. Enable IP forwarding so the host routes container traffic
sudo sysctl -w net.inet.ip.forwarding=1

# 2. Enable NAT so container traffic gets masqueraded through your internet interface
echo "nat on en0 from 192.168.64.0/24 to any -> (en0)" | sudo pfctl -ef -
```

> **Note:** Replace `en0` with your active internet interface. Check with: `route get 8.8.8.8 | grep interface`

## Making It Persistent

These settings reset on reboot. To make them permanent:

**IP Forwarding** — add to `/etc/sysctl.conf`:
```
net.inet.ip.forwarding=1
```

**NAT Rules** — add to `/etc/pf.conf` (before any existing rules):
```
nat on en0 from 192.168.64.0/24 to any -> (en0)
```

Then reload: `sudo pfctl -f /etc/pf.conf`

## IPv6 DNS Issue

By default, DNS resolvers return IPv6 (AAAA) records before IPv4 (A) records. Since our NAT only handles IPv4, Node.js applications inside containers will try IPv6 first and fail.

The container image and runner are configured to prefer IPv4 via:
```
NODE_OPTIONS=--dns-result-order=ipv4first
```

This is set both in the `Dockerfile` and passed via `-e` flag in `container-runner.ts`.

## Verification

```bash
# Check IP forwarding is enabled
sysctl net.inet.ip.forwarding
# Expected: net.inet.ip.forwarding: 1

# Test container internet access
docker run --rm curlimages/curl \
  -s4 --connect-timeout 5 -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com
# Expected: 200 or 403 (not a timeout)

# Check bridge interface (only exists when a container is running)
ifconfig bridge100
```

## Troubleshooting

| Symptom | Cause | Fix |
|---------|-------|-----|
| `curl: (28) Connection timed out` | IP forwarding disabled | `sudo sysctl -w net.inet.ip.forwarding=1` |
| HTTP works, HTTPS times out | IPv6 DNS resolution | Add `NODE_OPTIONS=--dns-result-order=ipv4first` |
| `Could not resolve host` | DNS not forwarded | Check bridge100 exists, verify pfctl NAT rules |
| Container hangs after output | Missing `process.exit(0)` in agent-runner | Rebuild container image |

## How It Works

```
Container VM (192.168.64.x)
    │
    ├── eth0 → gateway 192.168.64.1
    │
bridge100 (192.168.64.1) ← host bridge, created by vmnet when container runs
    │
    ├── IP forwarding (sysctl) routes packets from bridge100 → en0
    │
    ├── NAT (pfctl) masquerades 192.168.64.0/24 → en0's IP
    │
en0 (your WiFi/Ethernet) → Internet
```

## References

- [apple/container#469](https://github.com/apple/container/issues/469) — No network from container on macOS 26
- [apple/container#656](https://github.com/apple/container/issues/656) — Cannot access internet URLs during building
